0 Preamble
==========

0.0 Purpose
-----------

Installs a minimal [MariaDB](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/MariaDB) role onto an Arch Linux machine.

The install will have:

* mariadb service

0.2 Prerequisites
-----------------

In order to use this script you need to have a machine running Arch Linux and have access to an account with administrative access - either via sudo or the root account.

Internet access must be available.

The following files and folders hierarchy must be available:

* ./common/functions
* ./r_mariadb.sh
* ./r_mariadb/
* completed nginx configuration file based on ./r_mariadb/mariadb.template

0.3 Changes
-----------

Folders/files created/modified:

* `/srv/databases/<database instance name>/`
* `/etc/mysql/my.cnf`
* `/run/mysqld/mysqld-$databaseInstance.sock (symbolic link to /run/mysqld/mysqld.sock)`
* `/etc/nftables.conf`

Note: modified files are backed up to `<filename>.<UTC date and time stamp>`


1 Test results
==============

| kernel version | results |
| :--- | :--- |
| 5.12.1-arch1-1 | no issues |

2 Usage
=======

2.0 Warnings
------------

None.

2.1 Pre execution
-----------------

1. Log in to the Arch Linux machine with an account that has sudo privileges (or as root).
2. Copy install scripts and folders to a temporary directory, preserving folder structure.
3. Change to temporary directory.
4. Create a mariadb configuration file with desired settings based on ./r_mariadb/mariadb.template file.
5. Ensure internet access is available. 

2.2 Execution
-------------

`$ sudo ./r_mariadb.sh <full path and file name of MariaDB configuration file>`

Note: if using a configuration file in same directory as mariadb.sh use:
`$ sudo ./r_mariadb.sh ./<configuration file name>`

If behind a proxy (and configuration file in same directory as r_mariadb.sh script), use:  
    `$ sudo sh -c 'export http[s]_proxy="http[s]://[<proxy user>:<password>]<proxy fqdn or ip address>:<proxy port>/"; ./r_mariadb.sh ./<name of nginx configuration file based on r_maria/mariadb.template>'`


2.3 Post execution
------------------

1. Add users and databases as needed.
