0 Preamble
==========

0.0 Purpose
-----------

Creates a minimal [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org) server install onto a virtual machine.

The install will have:

* serial console 'ttyS0'
* a configured nftables firewall
* an ssh server (openssh)
* a local administrative account with sudo rights
* minimal networking
* a wrapper around the 'ls' command called 'list'
* 1 GiB swap file in / .
* Enabled quem-guest-agent service.

0.1 Contributors
----------------

0.2 Prerequisites
-----------------

In order to use this script you need to have created a virtual machine with a mounted Arch Linux install iso that has been booted into that install iso.

The virtual machine must have:

* virtual disk to install Arch Linux on must be /dev/vda
* network interface
* sufficient disk space for a 1 GiB swap file (so, amongst other reasons, the guest can successfully perform an upgrade with less than 512 MiB RAM) and Linux base system
* Channel deveice "qemu-ga" (org.qemu.guest_agent.0) - for enabled qemu-guest-agent service to start.

Internet access must be available.

The following files and folders hierarchy must be available:

* ./v_svr_base.sh
* ./common/*
* ./v_svr_base/*
* completed host configuration file based on ./v_svr_base/server.template

0.2.1 Creating a guest
----------------------

With virt-manager:

1. Open virt-manager.
1. File -> New Virtual Machine.
1. Step 1 of 5:
    * Select 'Local install media (ISO image or CDROM)'.
    * Architecture options -> x86_64.
1. Step 2 of 5:
    * 'Choose ISO or CDROM install media:' browse to Arch Linux iso image or CDROM.
1. Step 3 of 5:
    * Select Memory and CPUs as needed.
1. Step 4 of 5:
    * Either have virt-manager create a volume or 'Select or create custom storage'.


1 Test results
==============

1.0 Installation
----------------

| Install iso | results |
| :---| :--- |
| archlinux-2021.11.01-x86_64.iso | install okay |

1.1 Booting
-----------

| Boot option | result |
| :---| :--- |
| Arch Linux | okay |
| Advanced options for Arch Linux -> Arch Linux, with Linux linux | okay |
| Advanced options for Arch Linux -> Arch Linux, with Linux linux (fallback initramfs) | okay |
| Advanced options for Arch Linux -> Arch Linux, with Linux linux (recovery mode) | okay |

2 Issues
========

None.

3 Usage
=======

3.0 Warnings
------------

** All data on mounted virtual disk will be destroyed. Backup first. **

3.1 Pre execution
-----------------

1. Boot into the Arch Linux install iso and login as root.
2. Copy install scripts and folders to a temporary directory, preserving folder structure.
3. Change to temporary directory.
4. Create a server configuration file with desired settings based on ./v_svr_base/server.template file.
5. Ensure internet access is available.
6. If specific repository mirrors are required, create and populate file ./common/mirrorlist based on ./common/mirrorlist.template. If ./common/mirrorlist does not exist the script will calculate the "best" mirrors (which will take extra time) and add those to the mirrorlist for the guest.

3.2 Execution
-------------

`$ sudo ./v_svr_base.sh <full path and file name of server configuration file>`

If behind a proxy, execute:  
    `$ sudo sh -c 'export http[s]_proxy="http[s]://[<proxy user>:<password>]<proxy fqdn or ip address>:<proxy port>/"; ./v_svr_base.sh.sh ./<name of server configuration file based on v_svr_base/server.template>'`

3.3 Post execution
------------------

1. Reboot guest.
2. "Remove" install iso.
3. Start guest.
3. Add users.
4. Install other applications/roles.
